

----- PAGE 1 -----
Page 1 of 8 
 
Tender 
Document 
for 
Supply 
and 
Installation 
for 
LED 
Luminaire 
Light 
 
The Buyer invites E-Bids in Two Bid System (i.e. Technical/Documentary and Financial Bid) 
from eligible manufacturers, authorized distributors or dealers or any other agencies-authorized 
to quote through GeM portal on mutually agreed terms and conditions and satisfactory 
performance Supply and Installation for LED Luminaire Light as per below speciation: 
 
Technical Specification:  
 
àમ 
સાધનો 
Ìયુનġમ Øપેશીફીકેશન 
1 
Product 
LED Luminaire for Road and Street 
Lights (V2) 
2 
Quantity 
425 Nos. 
2 
LED 
Rating 
(in 
Watts)/System 
Wattage/Rated Power 
36W 
3 
Warranty for free replacement (in years) 
2 Year or More 
5 
Luminaire System Efficacy (Lumen/watt) 
>/= 100 Lm/Watt Or More 
6 
Ingress Protection (IP Rating) as per 
IS:10322 (Part 1):1982 latest 
IP66 or Higher 
7 
Automatic Higher Cut oﬀ voltage above 300 
volt 
Yes 
8 
Input 
operating 
voltage 
range 
and 
frequency 
140 to 270 Volts AC at 50 Hz +/-2 
10 
The luminaire body must be corrosion 
resistant powder coated 
Yes 
11 
Protection of the entire housing(both LED 
section 
and 
driver 
section)as 
per 
IS:10322(Part 1):1982 latest 
IP66 or Higher 
13 
Luminaries light transparency should be of 
Toughened glass  
Yes 
16 
Number of electronic control gear (power 
supplies) 
1 No. Or More 
17 
The Luminaires works on single phase three 
wires system (Phase, Neutral and Earth) 
Yes 
18 
Provision of luminaire connecting wire 
along with the supply of material 
100 cm Or More 
19 
Colour temperature  
White 6500K 
20 
LED Make 
OSRAM / NICHIA / CREE / 
SAMSUNG / SEOUL / LUMILEDS / 
PHILIPS / SYSKA / LUMENMAX / 
EVERLIGHT 
/ 
EDISON 
/ 
BRIDGELUX 
/ 
NATIONSTAR 
/ 
REFOND/APT 
21 
Other protection 
Output Short Circuit Protection, 
Output Overload Protection, Input 
Over Voltage Protection, Input and 
Output Reverse Polarity and as per 
IS 10322/Part 5/Section 3 
22 
Optic lense materal (UV stabilised) 
Poly carbonate lense 
23 
Operating temperature range 
-10 deg C to +55 deg C 


----- PAGE 2 -----
Page 2 of 8 
 
24 
The luminaire shall be protected against 
surges and transients ( Internal) 
>/=5KV 
25 
The luminaire shall be protected against 
surges and transients (External) 
>/=10KV 
26 
Installation 
Details(Fabrication 
and 
Fittings) 
0.5" Dia. Or Higher and 1.5 Foot 
Length or Higher GI Pipe and 
Clamp and Cable along with Proper 
Installation and Power supply with 
testing. 
 
Eligibility Criteria: Prospective bidders must meet the following eligibility criteria: 
1. Bidder must submit declaration that it is not black-listed by any central/state government/Public 
Sector Undertaking written on 300 Rs. Stamp paper. (Not Older than 3 Months) 
 
2. GST Clearance Certificate, Tender without GST Clearance Certificate will be rejected. 
 
3. Bidder or its OEM must have ISO 9001, LM 79 & LM 80, ISO CERTIFICATE, NABL TEST REPORT, 
CAT-3 R&B Approval, BIS Certificate. 
4. OEM Authorization Certificate is to be submitted for LED, Pipe/bracket & Cable with BID Number. 
5. Financial Criteria:- Bidder needs to have an annual average turnover  of Min. 20.00 lakh 
(Average) last three financial years. CA Certified Turnover Certificate along with Networth 
Certificate of Last 3 Years. 
 
6. Bidder's offer is liable to be rejected if they don't upload any of the certificates / Documents 
sought in the bid documents. 
 
7. Only Gujarat State Parties liable to Participate in Bid along with Service Centre nearby of Kadi. 
 
8. Bidder must have an office in Gujarat; submit the valid document with the office address for proof 
of office location.  
 
9. Bidders must submit the product specification data sheet with sign stamp compulsory to accept 
the bid product’s specification.  
 
10. Bidder Need to Provide their financial Standing. 
 
11. Bidder needs to provide 2 years of free replacement in warranty. 
 
12. Bidder/OEM needs to have an single Purchase order & Completion certificate (CRAC) of min. 5.00 
lakh of LED Street light on GEM portal. 
 
13. Price (All Items LED, Pipe, Bracket, Cable etc.) inclusive of all taxes and with Supply and 
Installation to be quoted. 
 
14. The bidder will be completely liable for replacement of product with manufacturing defects, 
damage during transportation or installation and product of poor quality during whole 
warranty period. 
 
15. Bidder needs to submit GST, Pan Card, Cancel Cheque and EFT Mandate form.  


----- PAGE 3 -----
Page 3 of 8 
 
16. The Succsesfull bidder will have to Supply and Installation of the Goods at different places as 
mentioned by the Taluka Panchayat, Kadi. And a certificate from the competent authority for 
Supply and Installation of goods Need to be Submit. Only then will the bidder be considered 
eligible for payment. 
 
 
Scope of Work: Supply and Installation of Led Luminaire Light at Various Location of Kadi 
Taluka. 
 
 
Bid Opening and Evaluation: The selection committee will meticulously evaluate the submitted 
proposals, focusing on technical specifications, past performance, and financial feasibility. 
Additionally, compliance documents specified in the technical bid will be rigorously examined. The 
decision of the selection committee is definitive and binding, forming the basis for the contract 
award. 
 
Bid Terms and Guideline for Document Preparation : 
 
 
Corrigendum Acknowledgment: Bidders are required to acknowledge any corrigendum 
published regarding the tender document before submitting their bids. 
 
Understanding Tender Requirements: Bidders are urged to carefully review both the tender 
advertisement and the tender document. It is crucial to understand the specific documents 
required for bid submission, including the number of volumes and documents, along with 
their names and content. Deviations from these instructions may result in bid rejection. 
 
Bid Document Preparation: Bidders should prepare the bid documents in advance as 
outlined in the tender document/schedule. Documents should preferably be in PDF format, 
scanned at 100 dpi with black and white settings. 
 
 
Standard Bid Preparation: Sellers must follow the standard bid preparation process and 
provide a detailed plan of the working methodology during the technical stage. Rates should 
be offered unconditionally and inclusive of all taxes. Any conditional submissions will lead to 
bid rejection. Bidders must quote rates on the GEM portal and in the Financial Bid Envelope. 
Any mention of price bid details in the technical bid will result in rejection. 
 
 
No Conditional Offers: Conditional offers or quotations will not be accepted. No variations in 
the terms and conditions of the tender, including deviations from standards, 
specifications, or terms of supply, will be allowed. 
 
Penalties and Liquidated Damages: In case of delays or non-compliance with the specified 
terms, penalties or liquidated damages may be imposed as per the terms and conditions 
outlined in the tender document 
 
 
Bid Securing Declaration: Bidders are required to availed Affidavit for Bid Securing 
Declaration, accepting that any withdrawal or modification of bids during the validity period, 
failure to sign the contract, or non-submission of performance security before the specified 
deadline will result in suspension for three (3) years from the disqualification date. 
 
 
Standard Time Reference: The server time displayed on the bidders' dashboard will be 
considered the standard time for referencing deadlines related to bid submission and bid 
opening. Bidders must adhere to this time during bid submission. 
 
 
Document Accessibility: Uploaded tender documents will only be accessible after the tender 
opening by authorized bid openers. 
 
Bid Submission Confirmation: Upon successful and timely bid submission, the portal will 
generate a bid submission confirmation message. A bid summary will be displayed, 


----- PAGE 4 -----
Page 4 of 8 
 
indicating the bid number, date, and time of submission, along with other relevant details. 
 
 
Prescribed Formats: Bids must adhere precisely to the prescribed formats provided. Any 
modifications or rewording of formats will not be acceptable. Tenders must be submitted 
online on the Gem Portal. Resellers participating in the bid may utilize their OEM credentials, 
including quality documents, certificates, and past experiences. 
 
Compliance and Timeliness: Incomplete tenders, amendments, and additions made after the 
opening, as well as tenders submitted after the due date, will be disregarded. Sellers are 
responsible for ensuring sufficient warranty coverage for the product as per the tender 
requirements. 
 
Right to Reject Offers: 
 
o 
If the validity of registration of the Mfg or reseller unit of the tender item to be quoted by the 
bidder has expired, the bidders will be treated as unregistered unless he has applied for 
renewal of registration within the validity of the registration period. 
o 
Not with standing anything contained in this Tender Document, the Buyer reserves the right to 
accept, or reject any or all Tender(s) and to annul the Selection Process, at any time without 
any liability or any obligation for such acceptance, rejection or annulment, and without 
assigning any reasons thereof. 
o 
Scrutiny of the Tenders will be done as per terms & conditions of the tender, Govt. Resolutions 
issued from time to time and guidelines given in the manual of office procedure for purchase 
of stores by the Govt. Departments issued by GeM and Government of Gujarat. 
o 
In the first instance only the "Technical Bid" (online) containing Technical supporting 
documents will be opened by any buyer officer, on the date of opening of the tender and taken 
into consideration for finalization.. Bid Inviting Authority, or his authorized representative (s) 
has the right to inspect the factories/store of Bidders, before, accepting the rate quoted by 
them, or before releasing any purchase order(s), or at any point of time during the 
continuance of Bid and also has the right to reject the Bid or terminate/cancel the purchase 
orders issued and or not to reorder, based on adverse reports brought out during such 
inspections 
o 
Bid scrutiny process is organized for once only by the Technical committee. Seller needs to 
read the document carefully and provide the desired document in one attempt only, detailed 
clause specific compliance need to provide in technical stage. 
o 
The seller must diligently address and prevent any conflict of interest during the bidding 
process. To ensure this, the seller is required to submit an Undertake Document along with the 
technical bids. This document serves as a formal commitment from the seller, confirming that 
they do not have any conflicts of interest that could influence or compromise the integrity of 
the bidding process. By submitting this document, the seller affirms their adherence to ethical 
standards and fair competition, promoting a transparent and unbiased tendering  procedure. 
 
Clarification on Tender Document: 
 
o 
Amendment of Tender Document : At any time prior to the deadline for submission of Tender, 
the Buyer may, for any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to clarifications 
requested by a Tenderer, modify the Tender Document by the issuance of Addendum/ 
Amendment. The Seller declares that no previous transgressions occurred in the last three 
years with any Government Organization that could justify his exclusion from the bid process. 
o 
All such amendments will be notified through Gem Portal to all Tenderers who have 
downloaded the Tender Document by online portal gem.gov.in. The amendments will be 
posted Only on the Official Website www.gem.gov.in along with the revised Tender Document 
containing the amendments and will be binding on all Tenderers. Declaration need to   
submit regarding Non-engagement of child labour. 
 


----- PAGE 5 -----
Page 5 of 8 
 
o 
In order to afford the Tenderers a reasonable time for taking an amendment into account, or 
for any other reason, the Buyer may, in its sole discretion, extend the Tender Submission Date. 
 
o 
After the technical representation, the buyer may ask for design or/and detailed workflow in 
soft copy or other way. Only that seller will mark as qualified bidders, whose details match 
with buyer’s expectation. 
o 
Cost involved in submitting the bids, attending the tender opening meeting, arrangements for 
the demonstration/presentation etc. shall be borne by the bidder. Seller needs to provide   
Bank mandate form latest after bid publish Date. 
 
o 
Seller needs to provide confirmation regarding provision of technical assistance where by buyer 
shall undertake on-site technical support whenever required. Necessary warranty bond affidavit 
Needs to provide in bid. 
 
o 
During evaluation and comparison of bids, the purchaser may, at his discretion, ask the bidder 
for clarifications on the bid. The request for clarification shall be given in writing by 
registered/speed post, asking the tenderer to respond by a specified date, and also mentioning 
therein that, if the tenderer does not comply or respond by the date, his tender will be liable to 
be rejected. Depending on the outcome, such tenders are to be ignored or considered further. 
No change in prices or substance of the bid shall be sought, offered or permitted. No post-bid 
clarification at the initiative of the bidder shall be entertained. The shortfall 
information/documents should be sought only in case of historical documents which pre-
existed at the time of the tender opening and which have not undergone change since then. 
These should be called only on basis of the recommendations of the TC. (Example: if the 
Permanent Account Number, registration with sales tax/ VAT has been asked to besubmitted 
and the tenderer has not provided them, these documents may be asked for with a target date 
as above). So far as the submission of documents is concerned with regard to qualification 
criteria, after submission of the tender, only related shortfall documents should be asked for 
and considered. For example, if the bidder has submitted a supply order without its 
completion/performance certificate, the certificate can be asked for and considered. However, 
no new supply order should be asked for so as to qualify the bidder. 
 
o 
Evaluation of Techno-commercial Bid : In evaluation of the techno-commercial bid, conformity 
of the eligibility/qualification, technical and commercial conditions of the offered goods to 
those in the bid document is ascertained. Additional factors, if any, incorporated in the tender 
documents may also be considered in the manner indicated therein. Evaluation has to be 
based only on the conditions included in the tender document and  any  other  condition  
should not form the basis of this evaluation 
o 
Evaluation of eligibility/ qualification Criteria: Procuring Entity will determine, to its 
satisfaction, whether the tenderers are eligible, qualified and capable in all respects to perform 
the contract satisfactorily. Tenders that do not meet the required eligibility/qualification 
criteria prescribed will be treated as unresponsive and not considered further. This 
determination will, inter-alia, take into account the tenderer’s financial, technical and 
production capabilities for satisfying all of Procuring Entity’s requirements as incorporated in 
the tender document. Such determination will be based upon scrutiny and examination of all 
relevant data and details submitted by the tenderer in its/his tender as well as such other 
allied information as deemed appropriate by Procuring Entity 
 
o 
Evaluation of Technical Suitability: The description, specifications, drawings and other 
technical terms and conditions are examined by TC in general and a technical member of the 
TC in particular. Nobody outside the TC should be allowed to determine this evaluation. The 
tender document should clearly state whether alternative offers/makes/models would be 
considered or not and, in the absence of an express statement to the effect, these should not be 
allowed. An important document is the exceptions/deviation form submitted by the tenderer. 
It is important to judge whether an exception/deviation is minor or major. Minor 
exceptions/deviations may be waived provided they do not constitute any material deviation 
and do not have significant financial impact and, also, would not prejudice or affect the ranking 


----- PAGE 6 -----
Page 6 of 8 
 
order of the price bid. Exceptions/deviations should not grant the tenderer any undue 
advantage vis-à-vis other tenders and Procuring Entity 
 
 
o 
Normally, the comparison of the responsive tenders shall be on total outgo from the Procuring 
Entity’s pocket, for the procurement to be paid to the supplier or any third party, including all 
elements of costs as per the terms of the proposed contract, including any taxes, duties, levies 
etc, freight insurance etc. Therefore it should normally be on the basis of CIF/ FOR destination 
basis, duly delivered, commissioned, as the case may be: Product must contain local contain as 
per set by GOI (Class 1) an affidavit for local contain needs to provide in technical bid. 
 
Signing and Sealing of Tender: 
 
 
o 
The seller is required to provide a notarized affidavit confirming that they have fully read and 
thoroughly understood the tender requirements. The affidavit must state that the seller 
accepts all terms and conditions of the tender, including any corrigendum or addendum 
issued, if any. 
 
o 
All the copies of the tender shall be duly signed at the appropriate places as indicated in the TE 
documents and all other pages of the tender including printed literature, if any, shall be 
initialled by the same person(s) signing the tender. The tender shall not contain any erasure 
or overwriting, except as necessary to correct any error made by the tenderer and, if there is 
any such correction; the same shall be initialled by the person(s) signing the tender. 
 
Corrupt or Fraudulent Practices: 
o 
It is required by all concerned to observe the highest standard of ethics during the 
procurement and execution of such contracts. The purchaser .(b) will reject a proposal for 
award if it determines that the Tenderer recommended for award has engaged in corrupt or 
fraudulent practices in competing for the contract in question;(c) will declare a firm ineligible, 
either indefinitely or for a stated period of time, to be awarded a contract by the purchaser if it 
at any time determines that the firm has engaged in corrupt or fraudulent practices in 
competing for, or in executing the contract. Seller needs to undertake for non- conviction in 
bid while submit the documents. 
 
Inspection, Testing and Quality Control : 
 
o 
The purchaser and/or its nominated representative(s) will, without any extra cost to the 
purchaser, inspect and/or test the ordered goods and the related services to confirm their 
conformity to the contract specifications and other quality control details incorporated in the 
contract. The purchaser shall inform the supplier in advance, in writing, the purchaser’s 
programme for such inspection and, also the identity of the officials to be deputed for this 
purpose. Integrity Pact guidelines "The Buyer" And “The Seller” hereby agree not to indulge in 
any corrupt practices including without limitation any activity or action to influence the 
transaction on any aspect of contract and commit to take all measures necessary to prevent 
corruption maintaining complete transparency and fairness in all activities related to GeM. 
Users agree to follow and adhere with the Integrity Pact guidelines. An Undertake certificate 
for integrity pact need to provide in bid.The Item supplied should be brand new and should be 
installed/commissioned at the locations specified by Consignee at no extra cost. This office is 
not bound to provide any mode of transport in respect of men or material required for the 
contract. Bidder needs to ensure the Quality manufacturing, detailed Step for Quality plan 
needs to provide with bid. 
 
Termination for insolvency: 
 
o 
If the supplier becomes bankrupt or otherwise insolvent, the purchaser reserves the right to 


----- PAGE 7 -----
Page 7 of 8 
 
terminate the contract at any time, by serving written notice to the supplier without any 
compensation, whatsoever, to the supplier, subject to further condition that such termination 
will not prejudice or affect the rights and remedies which have accrued and / or will accrue 
thereafter to the Purchaser/Consignee. If the Seller makes incorrect statement on this subject, 
he can be disqualified from the bid process and action can be taken as per the procedure 
mentioned in "Incident Management Policy". Seller needs to submit  latest  Bank  
Solvency certificate in proof of financial standing. 
 
Force Majeure: 
o 
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in TED the supplier shall not be liable for 
imposition of any such sanction so long the delay and/or failure of the supplier in fulfilling its 
obligations under the contract is the result of an event of Force Majeure 
 
o 
For purposes of this clause, Force Majeure means an event beyond the control of the supplier 
and not involving the supplier’s fault or negligence and which is not foreseeable and not 
brought about at the instance of, the party claiming to be affected by such event and which has 
caused the non–performance or delay in performance. Such events may include, but are not 
restricted to, acts of the Purchaser/Consignee either in its sovereign or contractual capacity, 
wars or revolutions, hostility, acts of public enemy, civil commotion, sabotage, fires, floods, 
explosions, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes excluding by its employees, lockouts 
excluding by its management, and freight embargoes 
 
o 
If a Force Majeure situation arises, the supplier shall promptly notify the Purchaser/Consignee 
in writing of such conditions and the cause thereof within twenty-one days of occurrence of 
such event. Unless otherwise directed by the Purchaser/Consignee in writing, the supplier 
shall continue to perform its obligations under the contract as far as reasonably practical, and 
shall seek all reasonable alternative means for performance not prevented by the Force 
Majeure event 
 
o 
If the performance in whole or in part or any obligation under this contract is prevented or 
delayed by any reason of Force Majeure for a period exceeding sixty days, either party may at 
its option terminate the contract without any financial repercussion on either side 
 
o 
In case due to a Force Majeure event the Purchaser/Consignee is unable to fulfil its contractual 
commitment and responsibility, the Purchaser/Consignee will notify the supplier accordingly 
and subsequent actions taken on similar lines described in above sub- paragraphs 
 
Other Important Terms 
 
o 
If dispute or difference of any kind shall arise between the Purchaser/Consignee and the 
supplier in connection with or relating to the contract, the parties shall make every effort to 
resolve the same amicably by mutual consultations. The jurisdiction for the settlement of 
disputes will be at the office of The Buyer. 
 
o 
The seller is required to provide a notarized affidavit on a stamp paper of INR 300, confirming 
non-blacklisting status and demonstrating financial standing. 
 
o 
If the parties fail to resolve their dispute or difference by such mutual consultation within 
twenty one days of its occurrence, then, unless otherwise provided in the SCC, either the 
Purchaser/Consignee or the supplier may give notice to the other party of its intention to 
commence arbitration, as hereinafter provided the applicable arbitration procedure will be as 
per the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 of India. In the case of a dispute or difference 
arising between the Purchaser/Consignee and a domestic Supplier relating to any matter 
arising out of or connected with the contract, such dispute or difference shall be referred to 
the sole arbitration of an officer, appointed to be the arbitrator by the buyer.  


----- PAGE 8 -----
Page 8 of 8 
 
 
o 
Original Power of Attorney or other proof of authority of the person who has signed the 
Tender OR copy of Power of Attorney attested by a Gazetted Officer or a Notary Public in proof  
of the authority of the person who has signed the Tender 
 
o 
Prices - The vendors are required to quote prices as per GEM general terms and condition 
(Financial Bid). The quoted rates shall be inclusive of all taxes, duties, Goods and Service Tax 
(GST) etc. as applicable and no extra cost shall be payable on this account. 
 
o 
The seller is required to provide an Anti-Profiteering Certificate under the Goods and Services 
Tax (GST) regulations. This certificate serves as a declaration that the seller will comply with 
the anti-profiteering provisions outlined in the GST laws. Anti-profiteering measures are in 
place to ensure that businesses pass on the benefits of reduced tax rates or input tax credit to 
consumers by lowering prices or maintaining the same prices after the implementation of 
GST-related reforms. 
 
